The Project Gutenberg EBook of A List of Educational Works Published by
Methuen & Company - June 1900, by Methuen & Company

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: A List of Educational Works Published by Methuen & Company - June 1900

Author: Methuen & Company

Release Date: December 25, 2014 [EBook #47779]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A LIST OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS ***




Produced by deaurider, Carolyn Jablonski and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)









                         A LIST OF EDUCATIONAL
                          WORKS PUBLISHED BY
                          METHUEN AND COMPANY
                           PUBLISHERS: LONDON
                            36 ESSEX STREET
                                  W.C.




                                CONTENTS


            CLASSICAL                                      3
            SCRIPTORUM CLASSICORUM BIBLIOTHECA OXONIENSIS  4
            CLASSICAL TRANSLATIONS                         5
            WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.                6
            SCHOOL EXAMINATION SERIES                      8
            METHUEN’S COMMERCIAL SERIES                    9
            SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS                       10
            TECHNOLOGY                                    11
            TEXT-BOOKS OF TECHNOLOGY                      12
            METHUEN’S SCIENCE PRIMERS                     13
            GERMAN                                        13
            HISTORICAL                                    13
            GENERAL                                       13
            UNIVERSITY EXTENSION SERIES                   15


              MESSRS. METHUEN WILL BE GLAD TO SEND
              PROSPECTUSES OF ANY OF THEIR SERIES; AND
              _BONÂ FIDE_ TEACHERS MAY OBTAIN FREE
              SPECIMEN COPIES OF MANY OF THE BOOKS, AND
              SPECIMEN COPIES OF OTHERS AT HALF THE
              PUBLISHED PRICE


                               JUNE 1900

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                  NOTE


              A COPY OF ANY BOOK IN THIS LIST CAN BE SEEN
              AT 36 ESSEX STREET, STRAND, W.C.; AND MOST
              OF THEM MAY BE CONSULTED AT THE LIBRARY OF
              THE TEACHERS’ GUILD, 74 GOWER STREET, W.C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           MESSRS. METHUEN’S
                            EDUCATIONAL LIST




                               Classical.


 =The Nicomachean Ethics of Aristotle.= Edited, with an Introduction and
   Notes, by JOHN BURNET, M.A., Professor of Greek at St. Andrews. Demy
   8vo, 15s. net.

This edition contains parallel passages from the Eudemian Ethics,
printed under the text, and there is a full commentary, the main object
of which is to interpret difficulties in the light of Aristotle’s own
rules.

“This is both a scholarly and an original contribution to the study of
the ancient Greek language and the ancient Greek philosophy. It is an
original book in the sense of contributing to the study of the subject,
not only mere learning and skill in summing up and expounding the
results of the researches of prior scholars, but also fresh and
illuminative ideas of the editor’s own. It is an edition which reflects
every credit upon its author’s learning and critical acumen, and which
cannot but prove heartily welcome to all classes of Greek
scholars.”—_Scotsman._


 =The Captivi of Plautus.= Edited, with an Introduction, Textual Notes,
   and a Commentary, by W. M. LINDSAY, Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford.
   Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d. net.

For this edition all the important MSS. have been re-collated. An
Appendix deals with the accentual element in early Latin verse. The
Commentary is very full.


 =Plauti Bacchides.= Edited, with Introduction, Commentary, and Critical
   Notes, by J. M‘COSH, M.A. Fcap. 4to, 12s. 6d.


 =Taciti Agricola.= With Introduction, Notes, Map, etc. By R. F. DAVIS,
   M.A., Assistant Master at Weymouth College. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =Taciti Germania.= By the same Editor. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =Herodotus: Easy Selections.= With Vocabulary. By A. C. LIDDELL, M.A.,
   Assistant Master at Nottingham High School. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Demosthenes against Conon and Callicles.= Edited, with Notes and
   Vocabulary, by F. DARWIN SWIFT, M.A. Fcap. 8vo, 2s.


 =Selections from the Odyssey.= By E. D. STONE, M.A., late Assistant
   Master at Eton. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Plautus: The Captivi.= Adapted for Lower Forms by J. H. FREESE, M.A.,
   late Fellow of St. John’s, Cambridge, 1s. 6d.


 =A Greek Anthology.= Selected by E. C. MARCHANT, M.A., Fellow of
   Peterhouse, Cambridge, and late Assistant Master at St. Paul’s
   School. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.


 =New Testament Greek.= A Course for Beginners. By G. RODWELL, B.A. With
   a Preface by WALTER LOCK, D.D., Warden of Keble College. Fcap. 8vo,
   3s. 6d.


 =Exercises in Latin Accidence.= By S. E. WINBOLT, Assistant Master in
   Christ’s Hospital. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

An elementary book adapted for Lower Forms to accompany the shorter
Latin Primer.


 =Notes on Greek and Latin Syntax.= By G. BUCKLAND GREEN, M.A.,
   Assistant Master at Edinburgh Academy, late Fellow of St. John’s
   College, Oxon. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Notes and explanations on the chief difficulties of Greek and Latin
Syntax, with numerous passages for exercise.


 =Passages for Unseen Translation.= By E. C. MARCHANT, M.A., Fellow of
   Peterhouse, Cambridge; and A. M. COOK, M.A., Assistant Master at St.
   Paul’s School. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

“We know no book of this class better fitted for use in the higher
forms of schools.”—_Guardian._

------------------------------------------------------------------------




             Scriptorum Classicorum Bibliotheca Oxoniensis.

                     OXFORD CLASSICAL TEXTS, 1900.


 =Thucydidis Historiae.= Libri I.-IV. By H. STUART JONES. Crown 8vo,
   paper covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Platonis Opera.= Tom. I. (Tetralogiae I.-II.). By J. BURNET. Crown
   8vo, paper covers, 5s.; limp cloth, 6s.


 =Lvcreti Cari de Rervm Natvra.= By C. BAILEY. Crown 8vo, paper covers,
   2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.


 =Cornelii Taciti Opera Minora.= By H. FURNEAUX. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 1s. 6d.


 =Aeschyli Tragoediae cum Fragmentis.= By A. SIDGWICK. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Apollonii Rhodii Argonautica.= By R. C. SEATON. Crown 8vo, paper
   covers, 2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.


 =Aristophanis Comoediae.= Tom. I. By F. W. HALL and W. M. GELDART.
   Crown 8vo, paper covers, 3s.; limp cloth, 3s. 6d.


 =Xenophontis Opera.= Tom. I. (Historia Graeca). By E. C. MARCHANT.
   Crown 8vo, paper covers, 2s. 6d.; limp cloth, 3s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                        Classical Translations.

                       EDITED BY H. F. FOX, M.A.,

             FELLOW AND TUTOR OF BRASENOSE COLLEGE, OXFORD.


Messrs. METHUEN propose to issue a New Series of Translations from the
Greek and Latin Classics. They have enlisted the services of some of
the best Oxford and Cambridge Scholars, and it is their intention that
the Series shall be distinguished by literary excellence, as well as by
scholarly accuracy.

                       Crown 8vo. Finely printed.

 =Cicero. De Oratore I.= Translated by E. N. P. MOOR, M.A., late
   Assistant Master at Clifton. 3s. 6d.


 =Aeschylus—Agamemnon, Chöephoroe, Eumenides.= Translated by LEWIS
   CAMPBELL, LL.D., late Professor of Greek at St. Andrews. 5s.


 =Lucian=—Six Dialogues (Nigrinus, Icaro-Menippus, The Cock, The Ship,
   The Parasite, The Lover of Falsehood). Translated by S. T. IRWIN,
   M.A., Assistant Master at Clifton; late Scholar of Exeter College,
   Oxford. 3s. 6d.


 =Sophocles—Electra and Ajax.= Translated by E. D. A. MORSHEAD, M.A.,
   late Scholar of New College, Oxford; Assistant Master at Winchester.
   2s. 6d.


 =Tacitus—Agricola and Germania.= Translated by R. B. TOWNSHEND, late
   Scholar of Trinity College, Cambridge. 2s. 6d.


 =Cicero—Select Orations= (Pro Milone, Pro Murena, Philippic II., In
   Catilinam). Translated by H. E. D. BLAKISTON, M.A., Fellow and Tutor
   of Trinity College, Oxford. 5s.


 =Cicero—De Natura Deorum.= Translated by F. BROOKS, M.A., late Scholar
   of Balliol College, Oxford. 3s. 6d.


 =Horace: The Odes and Epodes.= Translated by A. GODLEY, M.A., Fellow of
   Magdalen College, Oxford. 2s.


 =Cicero de Officiis.= Translated by G. B. GARDINER, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s.
   6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                    WORKS BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.


 =Initia Latina=: Easy Lessons on Elementary Accidence. Fourth Edition.
   Fcap. 8vo, 1s.


 =First Latin Lessons.= Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s.


 =First Latin Reader.= With Notes adapted to the Shorter Latin Primer,
   and Vocabulary. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Selections from Cæsar.= Part I. The Helvetian War. Second
   Edition. 18mo, 1s.


 =Easy Selections from Livy.= Part I. The Kings of Rome. 18mo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Latin Passages for Unseen Translation.= Sixth Edition. Fcap. 8vo,
   1s. 6d.


 =Exempla Latina=: First Exercises in Latin Accidence. With Vocabulary.
   Crown 8vo, 1s.


 =Easy Latin Exercises on the Syntax of the Shorter and Revised Latin
   Primer.= With Vocabulary. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d. Issued
   with the consent of Dr. KENNEDY. =Key=, 3s. net.


 =The Latin Compound Sentence=: Rules and Exercises. Second Edition.
   Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.; with Vocabulary, 2s.


 =Notanda Quaedam: Miscellaneous Latin Exercises on Common Rules and
   Idioms.= Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.; with Vocabulary, 2s.


 =Latin Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =A Vocabulary of Latin Idioms and Phrases.= Second Edition. 18mo, 1s.


 =Steps to Greek.= 18mo, 1s.


 =A Shorter Greek Primer.= Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy Greek Passages for Unseen Translation.= Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo,
   1s. 6d.


 =Easy Greek Exercises on Elementary Syntax.= _In preparation._


 =Greek Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Greek Testament Selections.= For the Use of Schools. Third Edition.
   With Introduction, Notes, and Vocabulary. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 =Steps to French.= Fifth Edition. 18mo, 8d.


 =First French Lessons.= Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s.


 =Easy French Passages for Unseen Translation.= Third Edition. Fcap.
   8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =Easy French Exercises on Elementary Syntax.= With Vocabulary. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. Key, 3s. net.


 =French Vocabularies for Repetition=: Arranged according to Subjects.
   Eighth Edition. Fcap. 8vo, 1s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       School Examination Series.

                    EDITED BY A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A.

                        Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. each.


This Series is intended for the use of teachers and students, to supply
material for the former and practice for the latter. The papers are
carefully graduated, cover the whole of the subject usually taught, and
are intended to form part of the ordinary class work. They may be used
_vivâ voce_, or as a written examination. This Series is now in use in
a large number of public and private schools, including Eton, Harrow,
Winchester, Repton, Cheltenham, Sherborne, Haileybury, Manchester
Grammar School, Aldershot Army College, etc.


 =French Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Tenth Edition.

  =A Key=, issued to Tutors and Private Students only, to be had on
    application to the Publishers. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. net.


 =Latin Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Tenth Edition. =Key= (issued as above), 6s. net.


 =Greek Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By A.
   M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Sixth Edition. =Key= (issued as above), 6s. net.


 =German Examination Papers in Miscellaneous Grammar and Idioms.= By R.
   J. MORICH, Assistant Master at Clifton. Sixth Edition. =Key= (issued
   as above), 6s. net.


 =History and Geography Examination Papers.= By C. H. SPENCE, M.A.,
   Clifton College. Second Edition.


 =Science Examination Papers.= By R. E. STEEL, M.A., F.C.S., Headmaster
   Plymouth Science Schools. In Two Volumes.

      PART I. Chemistry.

      PART II. Physics (Sound, Light, Heat, Magnetism, Electricity).


 =General Knowledge Examination Papers.= By A. M. M. STEDMAN, M.A. Third
   Edition. =Key= (as above), 7s. net.


 =Examination Papers in Book-keeping.= With Preliminary Exercises.
   Compiled and Arranged by J. T. MEDHURST, F.S.Accts. and Auditors, and
   Lecturer at City of London College. Sixth Edition. 3s.


 =English Literature Examination Papers.= Chiefly Collected from College
   Papers set at Cambridge. With an Introduction on the Study of
   English. By the Rev. W. W. SKEAT, Litt.D., LL.D., Professor of
   Anglo-Saxon at Cambridge University. Third Edition, Revised.


 =Arithmetic Examination Papers.= By C. PENDLEBURY, M.A., Senior
   Mathematical Master, St. Paul’s School. Fourth Edition. =Key=, 5s.


 =Trigonometry Examination Papers.= By E. H. WARD, M.A., late Assistant
   Master at St. Paul’s School. Third Edition. =Key=, 5s.


 =Examination Papers in English History.= By J. TAIT WARDLAW, B.A.,
   King’s College, Cambridge. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      Methuen’s Commercial Series.

               EDITED BY H. DE B. GIBBINS, LITT.D., M.A.

                       Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d. and 2s.


This Series is intended to assist students and young men preparing for
a commercial career, by supplying useful handbooks of a clear and
practical character, dealing with those subjects which are absolutely
essential in a business life. At the same time, the requirements of a
broad education, as opposed to mere cram, are kept in view; while each
volume is the work of a practical teacher of his subject.


 1. =British Commerce and Colonies from Elizabeth to Victoria.= By H. DE
     B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A., Author of “The Industrial History of
     England,” etc. Third Edition. 2s.


 2. =A Manual of French Commercial Correspondence.= By S. E. BALLY,
     Modern Language Master at the Manchester Grammar School. Second
     Edition. 2s.


 3. =A Manual of German Commercial Correspondence.= By S. E. BALLY. 2s.
     6d.


 4. =A French Commercial Reader.= By S. E. BALLY. Second Edition. 2s.


 5. =Commercial Geography.= With special reference to Trade Routes, New
     Markets, and Manufacturing Districts. By L. D. LYDE, M.A., of the
     Academy, Glasgow. Second Edition. 2s.


 6. =Commercial Examination Papers.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.,
     Author of “The Industrial History of England.” Papers on Commercial
     Geography and History, French and German Correspondence,
     Book-keeping, and Office Work. 1s. 6d.


 7. =The Economics of Commerce.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A. 1s.
     6d.


 8. =A Primer of Business.= By S. JACKSON, M.A. Third Edition. 1s. 6d.


 9. =Commercial Arithmetic.= By F. G. TAYLOR, M.A. Third Edition. 1s. 6d.


 10. =Précis Writing and Office Correspondence.= By E. WHITFIELD, M.A.
     2s.


 11. =A Guide to Professions and Business.= By HENRY JONES. 1s. 6d.


 12. =The Principles of Book-keeping by Double Entry.= J. E. B. M‘ALLEN,
     M.A. 2s.


 13. =Commercial Law.= By W. DOUGLAS EDWARDS. 2s.


                       _Other Volumes to follow_

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                        Science and Mathematics.


 =The Scientific Study of Scenery.= By J. E. MARR, M.A., F.R.S., Fellow
   of St. John’s College, Cambridge. With numerous Illustrations and
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 6s.

  An elementary treatise on geomorphology—the study of the earth’s
outward forms. It is for the use of students of physical geography and
geology, and will also be highly interesting to the general reader.

“Mr. Marr has produced a volume, moderate in size and readable in
style, which will be acceptable alike to the student of geology and
geography and to the tourist.”—_Athenæum._

“A fascinating book, a real fairy tale, which is the story of the
making of the scenery of to-day.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._


 =The World of Science.= Including Chemistry, Heat, Light, Sound,
   Magnetism, Electricity, Botany, Zoology, Physiology, Astronomy, and
   Geology. By R. ELLIOT STEEL, M.A., F.C.S. 147 Illustrations. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

“If Mr. Steel is to be placed second to any for this quality of
lucidity, it is only to Huxley himself; and to be named in the same
breath with this master of the craft of teaching is to be accredited
with the clearness of style and simplicity of arrangement that belong
to thorough mastery of a subject.”—_Parents’ Review._


 =Elementary Light.= By R. E. STEEL. With numerous Illustrations. Crown
   8vo, 4s. 6d.


 =Volumetric Analysis.= By J. B. RUSSELL, B.Sc., Science Master at
   Burnley Grammar School. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

“A collection of useful, well-arranged notes.”—_School Guardian._


 =A South African Arithmetic.= By HENRY HILL, B.A., Assistant Master at
   Worcester School, Cape Colony. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

This book has been specially written for use in South African schools.


 =Test Cards in Euclid and Algebra.= By D. S. CALDERWOOD, Headmaster of
   the Normal School, Edinburgh. In three packets of 40, with Answers,
   1s. each; or in three books, price 2d., 2d., and 3d.


 =Dairy Bacteriology.= A Short Manual for the Use of Students. By Dr.
   ED. VON FREUDENREICH. Translated by J. R. AINSWORTH DAVIS, M.A.
   Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.


 =Outlines of Biology.= By P. CHALMERS MITCHELL, M.A. Illustrated. Crown
   8vo, 6s.

A text-book designed to cover the new Schedule issued by the Royal
College of Physicians and Surgeons.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              Technology.


 =Ornamental Design for Woven Fabrics.= By C. STEPHENSON, of the
   Technical College, Bradford; and F. SUDDARDS, of the Yorkshire
   College, Leeds. With 65 full-page Plates. Second Edition. Demy 8vo,
   7s. 6d.

“The book is very ably done, displaying an intimate knowledge of
principles, good taste, and the faculty of clear
exposition.”—_Yorkshire Post._


 =The Construction of Large Induction Coils.= By A. T. HARE, M.A. With
   numerous Diagrams. Demy 8vo, 6s.


 =Lace-Making in the Midlands, Past and Present.= By C. C. CHANNER and
   M. E. ROBERTS. With 16 full-page Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       Text-Books of Technology.


EDITED BY W. GARNETT, D.C.L., SECRETARY OF THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION
  BOARD OF THE LONDON COUNTY COUNCIL; AND PROFESSOR J. WERTHEIMER,
  B.SC., F.I.C., PRINCIPAL OF THE MERCHANT VENTURERS’ TECHNICAL
  COLLEGE, BRISTOL.

Messrs. METHUEN are issuing a series of elementary books under the
above title. They are specially adapted to the needs of Technical
Schools and Colleges, and fulfil the requirements of students preparing
for the examinations of the City and Guilds of London Institute.

The prices vary according to the size of the volumes, which are
suitably illustrated.


=How to make a Dress.= By J. A. E. WOOD. Illustrated. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

“Though primarily intended for students, Miss Wood’s dainty little
manual may be consulted with advantage by any girls who want to make
their own frocks. The directions are simple and clear, and the diagrams
very helpful.”—_Literature._


=Carpentry and Joinery.= By F. C. WEBBER. With 176 Illustrations. Crown
  8vo, 3s. 6d.

The drawings are intended to serve not only as illustrations, but also
as examples for reproduction by the student.

“An admirable elementary text-book on the subject.”—_Builder._


 =Practical Mechanics.= By SIDNEY H. WELLS. With 75 Illustrations and
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Contains all that is necessary for the London Matriculation Examination
and the Elementary course in Applied Mechanics of the Science and Art
Department.


 =Practical Physics.= By H. STROUD, D.Sc., M.A., Professor of Physics in
   the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne. Fully Illustrated.
   Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

An introduction to the standard works on Practical Physics.


 =Practical Chemistry.= By W. FRENCH, M.A. Part I. With numerous
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.

Based on the scheme issued by the Education Department for Evening
Continuation Schools and that of the Headmasters’ Association. Suitable
for Oxford and Cambridge Junior Locals.


 =Millinery: Theoretical and Practical.= By CLARE HILL. With numerous
   Diagrams. Crown 8vo, 2s.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                       Methuen’s Science Primers.

             EDITED BY PROFESSOR WERTHEIMER, B.SC., F.I.C.


Messrs. METHUEN announce the issue of a series of elementary books
dealing with the science subjects mentioned in the Directory of the
Department of Science and Art. They will be suitable for use in Grammar
Schools, Schools of Science, and Technical Institutions, and for
candidates preparing for the examinations of the Department.

=General Elementary Science.= By J. T. DUNN, D.Sc., and V. A. MUNDELLA,
  M.A. With 114 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

Specially intended for London Matriculation General Elementary Science
Examination.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                German.


 =A Companion German Grammar.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.,
   Headmaster at Kidderminster Grammar School. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


 =German Passages for Unseen Translation.= By E. M‘QUEEN GRAY. Crown
   8vo, 2s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              Historical.


 =A Constitutional and Political History of Rome.= By T. M. TAYLOR,
   M.A., Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, Senior
   Chancellor’s Medallist for Classics, Porson University Scholar, etc.
   etc. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d.

An account of the origin and growth of the Roman institutions, and a
discussion of the various political movements in Rome from the earliest
times to the death of Augustus.

“We fully recognise the value of this carefully written work, and
admire especially the fairness and sobriety of the author’s judgment,
and the human interest with which he has inspired a subject which in
some hands becomes a mere series of cold abstractions. It is a work
that will be stimulating to the student of Roman history.”—_Athenæum._


 =A Short History of Rome.= By J. WELLS, M.A., Fellow and Tutor of
   Wadham College, Oxford. With 3 Maps. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s.
   6d.

“An original work, written on an original plan and with uncommon
freshness and vigour.”—_Speaker._

“The schoolmasters who have felt the want of a fifth-form handbook of
Roman history may congratulate themselves on persuading Mr. Wells to
respond to it. His book is excellently planned and executed. Broken up
into short paragraphs, with headings to arrest the attention, his
manual does equal justice to the personal and the constitutional
aspects of the story. Special credit is due to an author who, in the
compilation of an elementary work of this kind, faces the difficulties
of his subject with conscientious skill, neither ignoring them nor
eluding them with a loose phrase, but striving to explain them in the
simplest and briefest statements.”—_Journal of Education._


 =Annals of Eton College.= By W. STERRY, M.A. With numerous
   Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d.

“A treasury of quaint and interesting reading. Mr. Sterry has by his
skill and vivacity given these records new life.”—_Academy._


 =Annals of Shrewsbury School.= By G. W. FISHER, M.A., late Assistant
   Master. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d.

“This careful, erudite book.”—_Daily Chronicle._

“A book of which Old Salopians are sure to be proud.”—_Globe._


 =Annals of Westminster School.= By J. SARGEAUNT, M.A., Assistant
   Master. With numerous Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 7s. 6d.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                General.


=Educational Reform.= By FABIAN WARE, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

An attempt by an expert to forecast the action and influence of the New
Secondary Education Act, with suggestions for useful developments.


 =Ballads of the Brave.= Poems of Chivalry, Enterprise, Courage, and
   Constancy. Edited by Rev. F. LANGBRIDGE. Second Edition. Crown 8vo,
   3s. 6d.; School Edition, 2s. 6d.

“A very happy conception happily carried out. These ‘Ballads of the
Brave’ are intended to suit the real tastes of boys, and will suit the
taste of the great majority.”—_Spectator._

“The book is full of splendid things.”—_World._


 =The Rights and Duties of the English Citizen.= By H. E. MALDEN, M.A.
   1s. 6d.

“There are few people better qualified to write on Citizenship than Mr.
Malden, who of course gives the historical development of all our
rights and privileges. It is an eminently readable little book—not the
less so because its author fearlessly states his personal convictions
on most matters.”—_Educational Review._


 =English Records.= A Companion to the History of England. By H. E.
   MALDEN, M.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.

A book which aims at concentrating information upon dates, genealogy,
officials, constitutional documents, etc., which is usually found
scattered in different volumes.


 =A Digest of Deductive Logic.= By JOHNSON BARKER, B.A. Crown 8vo, 2s.
   6d.

A note book intended to be used side by side with the ordinary Manual.
It offers an outline of the subject and a fuller discussion of the
points likely to be overlooked or omitted.


 =A Class-Book of Dictation Passages.= By W. WILLIAMSON, M.A. Second
   Edition. Crown 8vo, 1s. 6d.


=The Metric System.= By LEON DELBOS. Crown 8vo, 2s.

A theoretical and practical guide, for use in elementary schools and by
the general reader. Containing a number of graduated problems with
answers.


 =A Primer of the Bible.= By W. H. BENNETT, M.A. Second Edition. Crown
   8vo, 2s. 6d.

This Primer sketches the history of the books which make up the Bible,
in the light of recent criticism. It gives an account of their
character, origin, and composition, as far as possible in chronological
order.


=A Primer of Wordsworth.= By LAURIE MAGNUS. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

This volume contains a concise biography of the poet, a critical
appreciation of his work in detail, and a bibliography.


=A Primer of Burns.= By W. A. CRAIGIE. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

This book is planned on a method similar to the “Primer of Tennyson.”
It has also a glossary.

“A valuable addition to the literature of the poet.”—_Times._

“An excellent short account.”—_Pall Mall Gazette._

“An admirable introduction.”—_Globe._


 =A Primer of Tennyson.= By W. M. DIXON, M.A., Professor of English
   Literature at Mason College. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d.

“Much sound and well-expressed criticism and acute literary judgments.
The bibliography is a boon.”—_Speaker._


 =A Short Story of English Literature.= By EMMA S. MELLOWS. Crown 8vo,
   3s. 6d.

The history of English literature told in a simple style for young
students. It is particularly rich in biographical detail, and contains
a considerable number of illustrative extracts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                      University Extension Series.


A series of books on historical, literary, and scientific subjects,
suitable for extension students and home-reading circles. Each volume
is complete in itself, and the subjects are treated by competent
writers in a broad and philosophic spirit.

                      EDITED BY J. E. SYMES, M.A.,

              PRINCIPAL OF UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, NOTTINGHAM.

            Crown 8vo. Price (with some exceptions) 2s. 6d.

 =The Industrial History of England.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D.,
   M.A., late Scholar of Wadham College, Oxon., Cobden Prizeman. Sixth
   Edition, Revised. With Maps and Plans. 3s.

“A compact and clear story of our industrial development. A study of
this concise but luminous book cannot fail to give the reader a clear
insight into the principal phenomena of our industrial history. The
editor and publishers are to be congratulated on this first volume of
their venture, and we shall look with expectant interest for the
succeeding volumes of the series.”—_University Extension Journal._


 =A History of English Political Economy.= By L. L. PRICE, M.A., Fellow
   of Oriel College, Oxon. Third Edition.


 =Problems of Poverty=: An Inquiry into the Industrial Conditions of the
   Poor. Fourth Edition. By J. A. HOBSON, M.A.


 =Victorian Poets.= By A. SHARP.


 =The French Revolution.= By J. E. SYMES, M.A.


 =Psychology.= By F. S. GRANGER, M.A., Lecturer in Philosophy at
   University College, Nottingham. Second Edition.


 =The Evolution of Plant Life: Lower Forms.= By G. MASSEE, Kew Gardens.
   With Illustrations.


 =Air and Water.= By Prof. V. B. LEWES, M.A. Illustrated.


 =The Chemistry of Life and Health.= By C. W. KIMMINS, M.A. Illustrated.


 =The Mechanics of Daily Life.= By V. P. SELLS, M.A. Illustrated.


 =English Social Reformers.= By H. DE B. GIBBINS, Litt.D., M.A.


 =English Trade and Finance in the Seventeenth Century.= By W. A. S.
   HEWINS, B.A.


 =The Chemistry of Fire.= The Elementary Principles of Chemistry. By M.
   M. PATTISON MUIR, M.A. Illustrated.


 =A Text-Book of Agricultural Botany.= By M. C. POTTER. M.A., F.L.S.
   Illustrated. 3s. 6d.


 =The Vault of Heaven.= A Popular Introduction to Astronomy. By R. A.
   GREGORY. With numerous Illustrations.


 =Meteorology.= The Elements of Weather and Climate. By H. N. DICKSON,
   F.R.S.E., F.R.MET.SOC. Illustrated.


 =A Manual of Electrical Science.= By G. J. BURCH, M.A. Illustrated. 3s.


 =The Earth=: An Introduction to Physiography. By EVAN SMALL, M.A.
   Illustrated.


 =Insect Life.= By F. W. THEOBALD, M.A. Illustrated.


 =English Poetry from Blake to Browning.= By W. M. DIXON, M.A.


 =English Local Government.= By E. JENKS, M.A., Professor of Law at
   University College, Liverpool.


 =The Greek View of Life.= By G. L. DICKINSON, Fellow of King’s College,
   Cambridge. Second Edition.


            PRINTED BY MORRISON AND GIBB LIMITED, EDINBURGH

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                          Transcriber’s Notes


This catalog has been extracted from the book The Alien Invasion,
Project Gutenberg E-Book 47043.

Punctuation errors have been corrected.

Italicized words and phrases are presented by surrounding the text with
_underscores_; boldface by surrounding with =equal signs=.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A List of Educational Works Published
by Methuen & Company - June 1900, by Methuen & Company

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A LIST OF EDUCATIONAL WORKS ***

***** This file should be named 47779-0.txt or 47779-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/7/7/7/47779/

Produced by deaurider, Carolyn Jablonski and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

